# Mitigations for Buffer Overflows and Code Execution Prevention

When running a program, compilers often create random values known as canaries, and place them on the stack after each buffer. Much like the coalmine birds for which they are named, these canary values flag danger. Checking the value of the canary against its original value can determine whether a buffer overflow has occurred. If the value has been modified, the program can be shut down or go into an error state rather than continuing to the potentially modified return address.

Additional defenses are provided by some of today’s operating systems in the form of non-executable stacks and address space layout randomization (ASLR). Non-executable stacks (i.e., data execution prevention [DEP]) mark the stack and in some cases other structures as areas where code cannot be executed. This means that an attacker cannot inject exploit code onto the stack and expect it to successfully run.

ASLR was developed to defend against return oriented programming (a workaround to non-executable stacks where existing pieces of code are chained together based on the offsets of their addresses in memory). It works by randomizing the memory locations of structures so that their offsets are harder to determine. Had these defenses existed in the late 1980s, the Morris Worm may have been prevented. This is due to the fact that it functioned in part by filling a buffer in the UNIX fingerd protocol with exploit code, then overflowing that buffer to modify the return address to point to the buffer filled with exploit code. ASLR and DEP would have made it more difficult to pinpoint the address to point to, if not making that area of memory non-executable completely.

Sometimes a vulnerability slips through the cracks, remaining open to attack despite controls in place at the development, compiler, or operating system level. Sometimes, the first indication that a buffer overflow is present can be a successful exploitation. In this situation, there are two critical tasks to accomplish. First, the vulnerability needs to be identified, and the code base must be changed to resolve the issue. Second, the goal becomes to ensure that all vulnerable versions of the code are replaced by the new, patched version. Ideally this will start with an automatic update that reaches all Internet-connected systems running the software.

However, it cannot be assumed that such an update will provide sufficient coverage. Organizations or individuals may use the software on systems with limited access to the Internet. These cases require manual updates. This means that news of the update needs to be distributed to any admins who may be using the software, and the patch must be made easily available for download. Patch creation and distribution should occur as close to the discovery of the vulnerability as possible. Thus, minimizing the amount of time users and systems are vulnerable.

Through the use of safe buffer handling functions, and appropriate security features of the compiler and operating system, a solid defense against buffer overflows can be built. Even with these steps in place, consistent identification of these flaws is a crucial step to preventing an exploit. Combing through lines of source code looking for potential buffer overflows can be tedious. Additionally, there is always the possibility that human eyes may miss on occasion. Luckily, static analysis tools (similar to linters) that are used to enforce code quality have been developed specifically for the detection of security vulnerabilities during development.

## Additional References
- [Stack Canaries](https://www.sans.org/blog/stack-canaries-gingerly-sidestepping-the-cage/)
- [Address Space Layout Randomization](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Address_space_layout_randomization)
- [Stack Smashing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Buffer_overflow_protection#GNU_Compiler_Collection_(GCC))
- [NX bit (no-execute)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NX_bit)
